---
layout: post 
title: MCF10a Media
link: 
author: Dana Woodstock
image: 
---
​
**Supplier**: Invitrogen (DMEM/F12)
​
**Item Number**: DMEM/F12 11330-032			
​
**Storage**: 4 Degrees Celsius
​
**Storage Location**: 4 degree common reagents fridge, bottom shelf 
​
**Uses**: Cell culture of MCF10a cells

**Notes**: Horse Serum (Invitrogen #16050-122) Thaw the bottle of horse serum in the Water bath. When thawed, make 25mL aliquots and store at the bottom shelf of the -20 degree common reagents freezer. 
		   EGF (Peprotech, 1mg) Resuspend at 100ug/mL in sterile dH2O. Store at 100uL aliquots in the -20 degree common reagents freezer
		   Hydrocortisone (Sigma #H-0888, 1mg) Resuspend at 1mg/mL in 200 proof ethanol and store 250 uL aliquots in the -20 degree common reagents freezer
		   Cholera Toxin (Sigma #C-8052, 2mg vials) Resuspend at 1mg/mL in sterile dH2O and allow to reconstitute for about 10 minutes. Store 50 uL aliquots in the 4 degree common reagents fridge. 
		   Insulin (Sigma #I-1882, 100mg vials) Resuspend at 10 mg/mL in sterile dH2O containing 1% glacial acetic acid. Shake solution and allow 10-15 min to reconstitute. Store 500uL aliquots in the -20 degree common reagents freezer.
		   Pen/Strep (Invitrogen #15070-063) Thaw the bottle of Pen/Strep in the water bath. When thawed, make 5mL aliquots and store at the bottom shelf of the -20 degree common reagents freezer.

​
**Protocol**: 1. Thaw DMEM/F12 media, 25mL Horse Serum, 100uL EGF, 250uL Hydrocortisone, 50uL Cholera Toxin, 500uL Insulin and 5mL Pen/Strep in the water bath. 

		      2. When thawed, remove them from the water bath, spray with 70% ethanol, dry it and put it everything in the hood. 
		      
		      3. With a serological pipet, pipet up and down to mix, then transfer the 25mL of horse serum to the DMEM/F12 Media Bottle. 
		      
		      4. With a pipette, transfer the 100uL of EGF to the DMEM/F12 media bottle. 
		      
		      5. With a pipette, transfer the 250uL of Hydrocortisone to the DMEM/F12 media bottle. 
		      
		      6. With a pipette, transfer the 50 uL of Cholera Toxin to the DMEM/F12 media bottle. 
		      
		      7. With a pipette, transfer the 500uL of Insulin to the DMEM/F12 media bottle. 
		      
		      8. With a serological Pipette, pipette up and down to mix, then transfer the 5mL of Pen/Strep to the DMEM/F12 Media bottle. 
		      
		      9. Close the DMEM/F12 media bottle and gently invert to mix. 
		      
		       
