---
layout: post 
title: cDNA/Reverse Transcription Kit
link: 
author: Serene Durham
image: 
---
​**Supplier**: Applied Biosystems
​
**Item Number**: 4368814
​
**Storage**: -20C
​
**Storage Location**: -20C Common Reagents Freezer - cDNA/Reverse Transcription Kits Box
​
**Uses**: Synthesizing DNA from extracted RNA for QPCR

**Notes**: 


**High-Capacity cDNA Reverse Transcription Kit***

1. Thaw all kit components on ice.
2. After obtaining the concentrations of RNA in your samples (nanodrop), calculate the amount of each sample required to add exactly 1000ng of RNA to each 10uL reaction. 
	- For example, if the concentration of RNA in a sample is 170ng/uL - you will add 5.9uL of RNA to 4.1uL of diH2O. 
3. Prepare the master mixes for your RT and NO RT samples. Multiply the following amount of each component by the number of RT samples you have.
	**RT MM**
	- 10x RT Buffer: 2uL
	- 25x dNTP Mix:  1uL
	- 10x Random Primers: 2uL 
	- Reverse Transcriptase Enzyme: 1uL 
	- Nuclease-Free Water: 4uL 
	TOTAL VOLUME: 10uL 
	**NO RT MM**
	- 10x RT Buffer: 2uL
	- 25x dNTP Mix:  1uL
	- 10x Random Primers: 2uL 
	- Reverse Transcriptase Enzyme: 0uL
	- Nuclease-Free Water: 5uL 
	TOTAL VOLUME: 10uL 
4. Add 10uL of 1ug RNA sample into labeled PCR tube strips. 
5. Add 10uL of 2x RT MM to each RT sample. Add 10uL of 2x NO RT MM to each NO RT sample. The final volume in each tube should be 20uL.
6. Place tubes in thermocycler and run the saved program "CDNA". Thermocycler settings can be found below:
	Settings   	  Step #1	 Step #2	Step #3 	 Step #4
	Temp	     	25C	    	37C	     85C	     4C
	Time (mins)		10 			120 	5 mins		infinity
